[Docs] Squeezing space out of AVR (#15243)
qmk/qmk_firmware: docs/cleaning_up_avr.md

# Squeezing the most out of AVR

First, death to AVR.  It's old, it's slow, it's past time to retire it.  The only issue with migrating away is the shortage. 

> If you want to reduce the compiled size of your firmware, there are a number of options to do so. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to reduce the compiled size of your firmware, there are a number of options to do so. 
```

## rules.mk
First and foremost is enabling link time optimization.  To do so, add this to your rules.mk: 
```make
LTO_ENABLE = yes
```
This will cause the final step to take longer, but should get you a smaller compiled size.  This also disables Action Functions, and Action Macros, both of which are deprecated.
This will get you the most savings, in most situations. 

From there, disabling extraneous systems will help.  Eg: 
```make
CONSOLE_ENABLE = no

> COMMAND_ENABlE = no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
COMMAND_ENABLE = no
```

Author: My shift key is busted, okay? :D

## config.h
If you've done all of that, and you don't want to disable featuse like RGB, Audio, OLEDs, etc, there are some additional options that you can add to your config.h that can help. 

Starting with Lock Key support.  If you have an Cherry MX Lock switch (lucky you!), you don't want to do this.  But chances are, you don't.  In that case, add this to your `config.h`:
```c
#undef LOCKING_SUPPORT_ENABLE
#undef LOCKING_RESYNC_ENABLE
```

Oneshots.  If you're not using these, you can disable the feature by adding this to your `config.h`: 
```c
#define NO_ACTION_ONESHOT
```
The same with tapping keys (mod tap, layer tap, etc)
```c
#define NO_ACTION_TAPPING
```
## Audio

If you're using the Audio feature, by default that includes the music mode feature.  This tranlates matrix positions into notes.  It's neat for sure, but most likely, you're not using it.  You can disable it by adding this to your `config.h`:
```c
#define NO_MUSIC_MODE
```
And by adding this to your `rules.mk`
```make
MUSIC_ENABLE = no
```

## Layers

There are also some options for layers.  For instance, you can outright remove them, by adding this to your config.h: 
```c
#define NO_ACTION_LAYER
```

> Or, probably better, you can limit the number of layers that the firmware uses: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, probably better, you can limit the number of layers that the firmware uses -- if you're using less than 8 layers in total:
```

```c
#define LAYER_STATE_8BIT
```

> or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or if you require up to 16 layers instead:
```

```c
#define LAYER_STATE_16BIT
```

## RGB

> If you're using RGB on your board, both RGB Light (Underglow) and RGB Matrix (per key RGB) require defines to enable different animations.  For RGB Light: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using RGB on your board, both RGB Light (Underglow) and RGB Matrix (per key RGB) now require defines to enable different animations.  For RGB Light: 
```

```c
#undef RGBLIGHT_ANIMATIONS
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_BREATHING
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_RAINBOW_MOOD
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_RAINBOW_SWIRL
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_SNAKE
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_KNIGHT
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_CHRISTMAS
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_STATIC_GRADIENT
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_RGB_TEST
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_ALTERNATING
#undef RGBLIGHT_EFFECT_TWINKLE
```

> For RGB Matrix, these are explicitly enabled, as well (or will be shortly)...  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For RGB Matrix, these need to be  explicitly enabled, as well:
```
